>> Mike North: Let's start
by renaming this file.
>> Mike North: I'm renaming it to ts,
I'm going to go to my
tsconfig, and add allow implicit, sorry,
noImplicitAny, setting this to false.
So this option disallows ImplicitAnys and
I wish to allow them.
It's kind of a double negative.
So I'll save that and go back to our file.
Now we actually are doing kinda okay here.
There are obviously a lot of ImplicitAnys,
but we haven't run into
too many problems here.
Let's see, contacts,
it's an array of anys.
This is a clue around that array
of anys versus array of nevers,
we're in a loose mode now, so
it looks like we're actually done.
Let's run our test again.
>> Mike North: Good, so
they've finished running.
All right, and this is where we make
a commit, open up a poll request, and
regard this as getting our foothold
into the Typescript world.
Anyone who remember step two?
>> Mike North: Forbid ImplicitAnys,
so making our anys explicit.
In this we're gonna have
quite a bit of work.
>> Mike North: Now we can see in our
gutter here TypeScript's telling us there
are many places where we
need to address things.
So I'd like to start with formatDate,
so we have to find a type for date.
Does anyone have an idea
of what this might be?
>> Speaker 2: Date.
>> Mike North: Date,
this is a clue, right?
ToISOString,
>> Mike North: Okay, so that's happy.
What about getFullName?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: Pardon?
>> Speaker 2: String.
>> Mike North: Let's try it.
So I'm getting errors that
Property's firstName,
middleName, and
lastName are not on string.
Got to be an object, right,
with properties on it.
>> Mike North: So I think it's
gonna be firstName, middleName,
>> Mike North: Save.
Okay, so now this looks to be happy.
So this ends up being kind of an array
of strings that we've filter for
anything missing.
This could be all optional,
this filtering gives me clue that
there's something falsy there
that were trying to eliminate.
We'll come back if it
starts to serve to bug us.
All right,
now this one looks a little gnarly,
so I actually would choose to
kind of wait until the end.
The problem we're running into
here if we look at contact
we're accessing all sorts
of stuff off of it.
So this is using a fair amount of whatever
structure, this using a lot of it.
And there's our date,
formatDate we're passing in,
but we should probably be
passing in deep if that's it
should still be fine,dates
define somewhere.
No, it's coming from up here, we're good.
All right, let's look at AddressBook,
so contacts.
So obviously, this needs to be type
the same as the array up here, right?
All this method is like a convenience that
lets us operate on the underlying array.
Here we're filtering through and there's
c, so c has firstName and lastName.
So this looks a lot like the data
structure we were working with in
the function below, the name parts.
This is a point where I'd say, it looks
like we're using this in several places.
I probably want to create an interface for
this.
So I will go ahead and do that.
There it is, so we'll just call it Person,
and up at the top,
>> Mike North: And so we would say that
contacts should probably
in array of Persons.
And this will take in a single person.
>> Mike North: Filter has a property
on it, it's firstName and lastName.
So again, I haven't identified that this
is necessarily, it could be a Person.
I mean,
it's checking to see if they're undefined.
It fits for now, we haven't found
a reason for it to not fit.
I'd wanna make a note here that
I should probably come back,
I may be over-constraining this.
If it's just some properties of a Person,
and now that I'm thinking about it
it probably is, you wouldn't want
to require that it be a full thing.
>> Mike North: Those undefined checks
make me want to make firstName and
lastName optional.
>> Mike North: Okay, so
this piece of code is happy.
Actually, our whole
AddressBook seems to be happy.
Now we're in the gnarly area.
And just for convenience and being
able to not scroll all over the place,
I wanna move this down so it's close by.
All right, we have a salutation,
salutation falling back
to an empty string.
That's a clue that a string
would probably work here.
>> Mike North: And the fact that I need
a fallback at all suggests it could be
falsy.
I guess maybe it could be an empty string,
but this should be okay.
Okay, then we've got phones and addresses.
Anyone have an idea for this?
Does this suggest a particular
shape of this value to anyone?
>> Speaker 3: Op code.
>> Mike North: It's an object,
Object.keys.
>> Mike North: So
something like that, right?
That's what Object.keys wants,
it wants an object.
Let's see, this type error,
>> Mike North: It looks like I am reaching
into that object and passing in pHName.
This error messages is
pretty good one to follow.
What does it suggest we do next?
>> Mike North: What are we missing?
>> Speaker 4: And
phName to your phones property.
>> Mike North: PhName is just a string.
>> Speaker 4: Keys.
>> Mike North: I'm looking at
this it has no index signature.
Let's add an index signature,
cuz we're taking an arbitrary string.
We only know what the string
is at runtime, right?
We're just iterating over all of the keys,
passing that key in.
This is what dictionary access looks like.
Where we can pass in a key and
we get a value back.
So this is where we need.
>> Mike North: Something like that, and
I'm gonna bet addresses is similar.
We could look at it, but AddrName,
let's just prove it to ourselves.
Here it is, reach in to the addresses
object, pass in the key,
get the value out, right?
Telltale sign of a dictionary or an
associate of array, passing key at value.
>> Mike North: So now we need to
figure out what these things are,
>> Mike North: So we've got on address,
houseNumber, street, city,
country, state, postalCode.
I'm gonna just make some
reasonable guesses for
these based on what I
think the type should be.
>> Mike North: HouseNumber,
number, street, string,
city,
>> Mike North: Is a string,
state is a string,
postalCode seems like a number
could be a string,
it doesn't really matter.
These are all just sort of strings or
interpolated things.
>> Mike North: Okay, and
contact has an email property.
>> Mike North: And all of my red
in my side bar has gone away here.
Just so I can show you one more place
where this information pops up in VS Code,
there's this Problems tab.
And cuz I've been opening and
closing a lot of files, some of these
are not related to our example here.
But this gives you sort of little
sticking points within your code,
places where the compiler
is finding errors.
So there we go, and
this would be another commit.
Because we've gotta run our test,
we can't forget that.
I don't expect any problems, cuz I think
we were just adding type information.
There is a problem.
>> Speaker 5: I think phones has
the wrong type for the value.
>> Mike North: Thank you,
phones has the wrong type for the value.
Let's look at this, look in the fixture
data postalCode should be a number.
So we're getting a type error
in the tests themselves.
Let's go address that, and
your phones, there's nothing here.
Did you suggest it should be a number?
>> Mike North: It looks
anything stringifiable here,
I'm willing to accept number
if the tests are happy.
>> Mike North: All right,
let's see what else we got to do.
Type string is not assignable to number,
it's a string,
>> Mike North: There we go, so
now we know our back and our normal state,
assuming our test coverage is good.
You see how much we are leaning on
the test coverage to make sure we haven't
substantially alter the code in
a way that will cause problems.
And the last phase here is going
to be going back to our tsconfig,
enabling strict mode, strict: true,
strictFunctionTypes: true,
strictNullChecks: true and
not that it matters cuz we're
not using BindCallApply.
But for completeness we'll set
up that as well, and luckily,
I don't see any errors here.
So it turns out our third step was kind
of a no-op where nothing new popped up.
We actually got to the finish line
with only forbidding implicit entries.
But it would be totally possible for
new things to pop-up that were fine
in the loose mode, and sort of only
became true violations once we
turn those compiler flags on.
Yes?
>> Speaker 6: So if I accidentally added
commas as I was writing my interface.
It seems like those are fine to do.
>> Mike North: They are, commas are find
between key-value pairs and interfaces.
The reason I prefer to use semicolons is,
it helps me visually
identify the difference between and
an object type and object value.
As you point out, both are fine.
I use prettier to automatically
format things every time I save, and
it's gonna replace commas with semicolons.